README.md, before:


# TUS in swipl

TUS protocol for resumable file uploads via HTTP in swipl (see:
[TUS](https://tus.io/))

This package implements both the server handlers and a simple client.

The package implements the core protocol along with two extensions:

* Creation
* Expiration

# Options

Options for the server can be set with the `set_tus_options/1`
predicate which has the following options:

* `tus_storage_path(Path)`: The `Path` contains the location of the
storage folder to be used for uploads. If not set it will default to a
temporary directory.
* `tus_max_size(Size)`: The `Size` is the maximum allowable upload
size in bytes. Defaults to `17_179_869_184` bytes.
* `tus_client_chunk_size(Size)`: The `Size` is the size of chunks to
  be uploaded. The default is `16_777_216` bytes.
* `tus_expiry_seconds(Seconds)`: The `Seconds` is the total number of
  seconds before the resource expires. This will allow resources which
  are not fully uploaded to be removed.

## Examples

### Server

To use the TUS server with the HTTP library in swipl you can simply
add a `tus_dispatch` call to your http_handler from a chosen endpoint
as follows:

```prolog
:- http_handler(root(files), tus_dispatch,
                [ methods([options,head,post,patch]),
                  prefix
                ]).
```

In order to determine the location of a given resource when passed the
resource URL in other contexts you can use the utility predicate
`tus_uri_resource(URI, Resource)` together with
`tus_resource_path(Resource, Resource_Path)`. In this way once a
client has uploaded a resource it can be referred to in client-server
communications, and be moved, modified or manipulated by server code.

### Client

The client invocation requires only the endpoint of interest and a
file and can be invoked thus:

```prolog
tus_upload(Example, URL, Resource)
```

The `Resource` variable gives back a resource handle that the server can use to
refer to the resource in subsequent communication.

## TODO

The remaining extensions would be desirable:

* Checksum
* Concatenation
* Termination

## Copyright

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may
obtain a copy of the License at

```
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
```

Commit message:

Adding example of options setting

README.md, after:


# TUS in swipl

TUS protocol for resumable file uploads via HTTP in swipl (see:
[TUS](https://tus.io/))

This package implements both the server handlers and a simple client.

The package implements the core protocol along with two extensions:

* Creation
* Expiration

# Options

Options for the server can be set with the `set_tus_options/1`
predicate which has the following options:

* `tus_storage_path(Path)`: The `Path` contains the location of the
storage folder to be used for uploads. If not set it will default to a
temporary directory.
* `tus_max_size(Size)`: The `Size` is the maximum allowable upload
size in bytes. Defaults to `17_179_869_184` bytes.
* `tus_client_chunk_size(Size)`: The `Size` is the size of chunks to
  be uploaded. The default is `16_777_216` bytes.
* `tus_expiry_seconds(Seconds)`: The `Seconds` is the total number of
  seconds before the resource expires. This will allow resources which
  are not fully uploaded to be removed.

For instance, to set a larger client chunk size one can call:

```prolog
:- set_tus_options([tus_client_chunk_size(33_554_432)]).
```

## Examples

### Server

To use the TUS server with the HTTP library in swipl you can simply
add a `tus_dispatch` call to your http_handler from a chosen endpoint
as follows:

```prolog
:- http_handler(root(files), tus_dispatch,
                [ methods([options,head,post,patch]),
                  prefix
                ]).
```

In order to determine the location of a given resource when passed the
resource URL in other contexts you can use the utility predicate
`tus_uri_resource(URI, Resource)` together with
`tus_resource_path(Resource, Resource_Path)`. In this way once a
client has uploaded a resource it can be referred to in client-server
communications, and be moved, modified or manipulated by server code.

### Client

The client invocation requires only the endpoint of interest and a
file and can be invoked thus:

```prolog
tus_upload(Example, URL, Resource)
```

The `Resource` variable gives back a resource handle that the server can use to
refer to the resource in subsequent communication.

## TODO

The remaining extensions would be desirable:

* Checksum
* Concatenation
* Termination

## Copyright

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you
may not use this file except in compliance with the License. You may
obtain a copy of the License at

```
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
```
